initial package content (#1)
deeplifeai/csv_validator: README.md

# CSV Validator

CSV Validator is a Python package that allows you to validate the content of CSV files against a specified schema using the JSON Schema standard. It provides a command-line interface for easy validation of CSV files.

## Installation

Install the `csv_validator` package using pip:

```bash
pip install csv_validator
```

## Usage

To validate a CSV file against the schema stored in the package, use the `csv-validate` command followed by the `--csvfile` option with the path to your CSV file.

```bash

> csv-validate --csvfile path/to/your/csv/file.csv

Author: We actually need to do a `pip install -e` to have the entry point work straight off, in some circumstances (including the CI actually). I've added that to the docs

# CSV Validator

CSV Validator is a Python package that allows you to validate the content of CSV files against a specified schema using the JSON Schema standard. It provides a command-line interface for easy validation of CSV files.

## Installation

Install the `csv_validator` package using pip:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:deeplifeai/csv_validator.git
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

To validate a CSV file against the schema stored in the package, use the `csv-validate` command followed by the `--csvfile` option with the path to your CSV file.

```bash

> csv-validate --csvfile path/to/your/csv/file.csv

Reviewer: the previous alteration to `pip install -e .` worked. I was able to run this command without issues.

```

## Example

> Assuming you have a CSV file named `data.csv` that needs to be validated against the schema stored in the package, here are examples of data that would both pass and fail the validation:

Author: ```suggestion
Assuming you have passing and failing CSV files named `test_data_pass.csv` and `test_data_fail.csv`, respectively, that need to be validated against the schema stored in the package, here are examples of the pass and failure:
```

### Passing Validation

> CSV file (`data.csv`):

Author: ```suggestion
CSV file (`test/test_data_pass.csv`):
```

```
column1,column2,column3
value1,50,true
value2,75,false
value3,25,true
```

Running the validation command:
```bash

> csv-validate --csvfile data.csv

Reviewer: Maybe change here to: 
`csv-validate --csvfile test/test_data_pass.csv`

> csv-validate --csvfile data.csv

Author: ```suggestion
csv-validate --csvfile test/test_data_pass.csv
```

```

Output:
```
Row is valid: {'column1': 'value1', 'column2': '50', 'column3': 'true'}
Row is valid: {'column1': 'value2', 'column2': '75', 'column3': 'false'}
Row is valid: {'column1': 'value3', 'column2': '25', 'column3': 'true'}
```

### Failing Validation

> CSV file (`data.csv`):

Author: ```suggestion
CSV file (`test/test_data_fail.csv`):
```

```
column1,column2,column3
value1,150,true
value2,-10,false
value3,abc,true
```

Running the validation command:
```bash

> csv-validate --csvfile data.csv

Reviewer: Maybe change here to: 
`csv-validate --csvfile test/test_data_fail.csv`

> csv-validate --csvfile data.csv

Author: ```suggestion
csv-validate --csvfile test/test_data_fail.csv
```
